# Protify
Tired of using Steam to open your favorite games? your cpu is too old and steam consumes a lot of cpu process? you hate the numbers in compatdata and getting lost everytime you need to change something in the prefix? heres the solution protify is a simply and light-weight software builded in flutter to make a minimalist launcher for opening your favorite games in linux using proton.

This software is builded thinking in easily open your games and configure prefixes for you using the proton, and you can make a lot of tricks to run your games such adding arguments installing libraries, dlls and easily find the prefixes folder to make changes in there, the software comes with a easily gui to install libraries, dlls for prefixes and .exe/iso for games.

### Features
- Launch games with proton
- Install .exe games or .iso games
- Install libraries .exe drivers and runtimes in the game prefix folder
- Install dlls easily into game prefix folder
- Non proton games compatibility
- Preferences page
- Category system to organize your library

### Considerations
In some cases running a game using the steam works but using the protify maybe not work, i don't know why this happens, feel free to [suggest](https://github.com/LeandroTheDev/protify/issues/new?assignees=&labels=enhancement&projects=&template=feature_request.md&title=) new configurations and commands to improve the protify.

In terminal log after starting the game/program you can simple click on the log you want to copy.

Rare cases will make the proton simple not open and restarting the system actually fixes the problem, i don't know the reason for that, old systems generally get this behaviour more frequently.

The generated command can be found in protify/data/log or you can click on the command generated by the log modal to copy it.

### Dependencies
You don't need all dependencies, only what you will use.
- Open protify: whoami, echo (Kernel)
- Install games from .iso: sudo, mount (Kernel)
- Run games with sniper runtime: openssl-1.1
- Run/Install windows games: proton or wine
- Select files/folders: Any File Manager
- Kill instance: ps (Kernel)

### [First steps](https://github.com/LeandroTheDev/protify/wiki/First-Steps)

### Issues and Security
If your issue is related to a software bug or you want to request and give any idea to a feature for the software, you can view the [Issues](https://github.com/LeandroTheDev/level_up/issues/new/choose) section

If you find any security issue that can leak to a malware or something, you can go to [Security Police](https://github.com/LeandroTheDev/protify/security/policy)

### FAQ
> Editing the game name will change the prefix folder?
- No, the prefix folder is generated when adding new game page or editing in edit page
> When i launch the game its crash and says c++ error
- Download vcruntime in official microsoft sites, click in the game and use the libs button, select the vcruntime, proceed to installation.
> When i launch the game its says is missing some random dll
- Download the dll and in game preview click in dll and install the dll.
> What types of data it will erase in clear button in preferences?
- All types of data that is managed by the protify: Games and Preferences.
- Prefixes and protons are not included.
> My steam is installed on a different location and i need to use steam compatibility how can i change?
- In the preferences page click in ``Steam Compatibility Directory`` and select your steam folder
> What happens if i remove the default prefix directory in my file manager and change it in preferences to another directory?
- Old games will need to be reconfigured, if not reconfigured the games will still find the old folder and recreate the prefixes there
> Where is the best location to keep the protify in my device?
- In your home directory anywhere you want, the protify will automatically setup everthing for you in the first launch, if you change the location remember to clear the data or manually change it in preferences page.
> I can open this program with sudo privilegies?
- No. this is not tested, protify is builded to be used in user ambient, never open protify in sudo mode.
> I am getting the error ``Wine cannot find the FreeType font library``
- You need the lib32-freetype package, download it from your distro repository
> How can i erase the protify data without entering in protify?
- All datas are stored in protify/data/items and protify/data/preferences.
> Protify works on steam deck?
- Since steam deck is based on arch linux probably yes
> Can i play DRM-Free modified games in this software?
- Yes
> What protify really does?
- Protify is basically a command saver, is a gui to help you organize the softwares that you open, especially the protons one, the only thing that protify does actually is generate command for opening your softwares and create folder for the prefix/shaders that proton creates.
> How can i speed up my protify launch (it taking too much time to load the preferences)
- You can add the command ``PROTIFY_EXECUTABLE=/path/to/protify/data/lib`` to your desktop file or you can create a shell script:
```sh
#!/bin/sh
PROTIFY_EXECUTABLE=/path/to/protify/data/lib /path/to/protify/protify
```

### Contributing
This project accept contributions and pull requests, feel free to check the [Contribution](https://github.com/LeandroTheDev/protify/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
file for this project, this file will help you to contribute.

### Building
To build this project is very simple, all you need is to download the [flutter](https://docs.flutter.dev/get-started/install) framework and his dependencies to build, then create a project using ``flutter create protify``, paste all the files from this project in there, build using the ``flutter build linux --release``, the release will be stored in ``build/linux/x64/release/bundle/``.

### Debugging
If you don't have protify set in your user home directory, in your building folder where the ``pubspec.yaml`` is located, create a new file inside the lib folder with the name protify_finder.txt, now you can run the command ``flutter run``.

If you have the protify set in your user home directory, just run the command ``flutter run``.

If you are on windows you just need to use ``flutter run``. (I don't know why you should try to run this on windows but okay...)

FTM License.